---
date: "2000-09-29"
title: 2000-09-29
tags: [debian, linux, work]
---
An unusual day. First things first, I had the news that one of my
favourite sites, [Slashdot](http://www.slashdot.org) was cracked
(*not* hacked) by some guys from Netherlands. According to the
reports from Slashdot themselves, it was their careless setting
that allowed that and that they've now learned the lesson and
secured their boxes. The sad state of computer security. Or
security in general.

I don't know what happened to my mind, but I cleaned my car. Hell's
temperature must be getting lower now.

Then I had to return a Celeron 400MHz that I was using to a place
[where I occasionally work](http://www.linuxcenter.com.br). It was
my guinea pig and I used it to test Debian's woody and, when I felt
brave, Linux 2.4 pre-releases. Now, I put my good, old, trustworthy
486 DX/2 66 back to use. It only has 8MB of RAM and a 120MB HD that
is not sufficient for demanding applications people use nowadays,
but I made a minimal install of Debian's slink and upgraded it to
potato (only 50 megs!), together with a custom compiled kernel.
Soon it will have 2 NICs and I'll use it as my router/firewall for
an ADSL connection (after Slashdot's fate, I'm willing to put a lot
of effort in the "firewall" part of it).

I took the time to see what loads it could handle and I'm more or
less satisfied with the results I got. I used it to transfer a 50MB
file to my Pentium MMX via
[publicfile](http://cr.yp.to/publicfile.html) many times and it
sustained 550KB/s. While I suspect it will not handle the situation
so gracefully with 2 NICs, it seemed to me that the real bottleneck
for higher speeds was the disk task, which as a router is close to
zero.

All this means that I have no idea what I can expect from it. Oh,
well.
