---
date: "2001-07-11"
title: 2001-07-11
tags: [apple, debian, hardware, linux, macos, powerpc]
---
Some weeks ago, my uncle that sells and fixes computers,
[Isaac](mailto:startmicro@uol.com.br), got a pair of old
[Power Macintosh 9500/180MP](http://www.info.apple.com/applespec/applespec.taf?RID=204)
from a customer. His customer said that if he fixed one of them,
the other would be his as payment. So he kind of fixed one of them
and lent me the other, which means that I'm now going to play with
both
[MacOS 8.0](http://download.info.apple.com/Apple_Support_Area/Apple_Software_Updates/English-North_American/Macintosh/System/Mac_OS_8.1_Update/)
and a Unix-like OS with it.

It came with two PowerPC 604e processors of 180MHz (or so the specs
say), 64MB of RAM (where am I going to get more of it?), an
[ATI](http://www.ati.com) graphics card with 2MB of memory, and a
4-speed CD-ROM. It features two SCSI interfaces, an Ethernet
adapter, a MacOS 8.0 CD, a keyboard and the (in)famous 1-button
mouse from [Apple](http://www.apple.com).

It is the first dual-head machine over which I am able to get my
greasy pawls. As welcome additionals, it is also the first time I
get to play with a non-x86 machine in a System Administrator
position (of course, I also use Solaris 2.x with
[my University's](http://www.ime.usp.br/) workstations, but that
doesn't count, since I'm just a luser there).

The PowerPC machines are actually quite different from their ix86
counterparts. First of all, they don't have a BIOS setup, but you
can interface with the hardware before any Operating System gets
loaded with
[Open Firmware](http://playground.sun.com/1275/home.html), which is
written in FORTH. You should be able to get into OF pressing
Command-Option-O-F while the machine chimes, or right after it
chimes. But, to be honest, I still couldn't see the damned OF
prompt, despite my numerous attempts and ways of pressing the
combination of keys.

Anyway, the first task to make it work would, obviously, be to
install MacOS 8.0 on this machine. Well, this sounds great, but my
experience with it is a tiny bit different.

The first of the problems is that the machine doesn't boot while
the HD is connected to it. Weird, huh? I agree. If, on the other
hand, I disconnect the machine, put the MacOS CD on the CD drive,
let MacOS start loading and *immediately* plug the power connector
on the HD, *then* the machine will boot MacOS and see the HD,
partition it and I am able to install MacOS on it. But on the next
reboot, I am not able to get things working without disconnecting
the power of the HD again.

Conformed to be working with the machine this way, I downloaded a
huge load of ISO images for it, including the
[NetBSD port for PPC](http://www.netbsd.org/Ports/macppc/), the
[Debian 2.2r3 port for PPC](http://www.debian.org/ports/powerpc/),
[LinuxPPC 2000 Q4](http://www.linuxppc.org) and
[Yellow Dog Linux 2.0](http://www.yellowdoglinux.com). I made sure
the images I downloaded all had the right MD5SUMs and even used
rsync on the images after I had downloaded them, just to make sure
everything got alright.

Well, of all those images, the only one that booted on the Apple
was the [LinuxPPC 2000 Q4 image](http://www.linuxppc.org), which
was quite frustrating. The Debian CDs that I burned (I burned two:
one from a US site and another with non-US programs) didn't even
boot, including boot floppies generated from them -- quite a shame,
since that is, by far, my preferred operating system.

Anyway, back to LinuxPPC. Seeing the machine boot with a
framebuffer with that little penguin holding a mug of beer and
telling me many things about the hardware that I didn't even know
is actually quite refreshing (no pun intended). After the kernel
boots, an X installer is started, a little menu appears and
things... ...STOP! That's right. After investigating a bit, I
discovered that programs are segfaulting consistenly in a reboot,
but in different reboots, the applications that segfault are not
necessarily the same that segfaulted in previous reboots. This may
be a hint that its memory is not OK, although I'm not so sure.

Anyway, I subscribed to the
[Debian PowerPC mailing list](http://lists.debian.org/#debian-powerpc)
and I have been following it daily, learning a lot of things about
PPC in general.

My faith is restored now that
[Ethan Benson](http://penguinppc.org/~eb/) has posted CVS-snapshots
of the woody boot floppies on his page *AND*, with them, I **can**
boot my machine.

I still have those problems with the HD, although its days are
counted on this machine: I'll be soon getting a 2GB SCSI HD for it
(I hope!), so that I can continue my journey of installing Debian
potato/woody (or any other operating system!) on this machine. I
can't wait to have the beautiful [KDE 2.2](http://www.kde.org/),
the highly anticipated [Mozilla](http://www.debian.org/) and the
amazing [qmail](http://www.qmail.org/) running on this machine
(things that this machine designers never dreamt of running on this
old machine).


