---
date: "2005-05-30"
title: 2005-05-30
tags: [free-software, life, linux, music]
---
I think that I have fallen in love with
[Floor](http://www.afterforever.com/new/pages/photos/pinkpop04/original/16.JPG)
[Jansen](http://www.afterforever.com/new/pages/photos/pinkpop04/original/11.JPG).
Or would that be
[Sharon den Adel](http://www.within-temptation.com.br/info/integrantes/sharon.htm)?
Or would that be Anneke van Giersbergen? Or would that be Liv
Kristine? Or [Tarja Turunen](http://www.tarjaturunen.com/)? I
sincerely don't know.

In other news, the floppy drive of my Desktop has decided to be
deceased, unfortunately. I "fixed" the problem by cannibalizing my
old 486 and getting its floopy drive to serve as a substitute.
Worked like a charm! It is a pain to have to open both machines and
to get the hands dirty, but at least, it seems that I am not a
Computer Scientist that doesn't even know how to fix his own
boxes.

Oh, I wrote a little bit more regarding the Linux course that I
will teach at my local University. The program is getting huge and
I will probably be covering things that are not very well
documented (yes, I'll have to study such topics), but it will be
rewarding for the students (and among such "students" of mine I
will have many co-workers!).

My plan is to make such a course be sufficient for certification
purposes of those that will be taking it. Of course, with a twist
and a high dose of Unix philosophy (which is good anyway, for
everybody).

Oh, and Debian never ceases to amaze me! I have just discovered a
very handy packaged called
[freepops](http://packages.debian.org/freepops) that lets me
download my mail from my old account at
[mail.com](http://www.mail.com/) via pop3. Quite nice to be able to
use that address again. And also as a bonus, it also acts as a
front-end for [mail.yahoo.com](http://mail.yahoo.com/), which means
that I am again able to read my mail there (again via pop3). So
nice that I can't even describe how happy I am.


