---
date: "2007-01-20"
title: 2007-01-20
tags: [life, free-software]
---
Here is (one of the various) reason(s) why I don't like to use
instant messengers:

    (15:00:43) arron_chard@hotmail.com: Get the best screen names on http://www.IM-Names.com
    (15:00:50) arron_chard@hotmail.com: hey hey
    (15:01:10) arron_chard@hotmail.com: arron sent you a wink which requires the latest version of MSN Messenger. To download the latest version of MSN Messenger, go to http://g.msn.com/5meen_us/122.
    (15:01:15) arron_chard@hotmail.com just sent you a Nudge!
    (15:01:30) Rogério: Do I know you?
    (15:01:45) Rogério: I don't use Microsoft products.
    (15:01:52) arron_chard@hotmail.com: DUNNO U CAME ONLINE TO ME
    (15:01:56) Rogério: I can't see the winks...
    (15:02:26) Rogério: Well, if you use Orkut, then that might be an explanation.
    (15:02:26) arron_chard@hotmail.com: :@WHY
    (15:02:44) Rogério: Why I can't see the winks?
    (15:03:04) arron_chard@hotmail.com: WHATS YOURE NAME
    (15:03:23) Rogério: My name is Rogério.
    (15:04:13) arron_chard@hotmail.com: YOURE ADDY IS DT_RULES @HOTMAIL.COM
    (15:04:32) Rogério: If you don't know me, then I guess that we can, as gentlemen, agree to remove each other's contacts from our messengers.
    (15:04:40) Rogério: Indeed, that's my address.
    (15:05:53) arron_chard@hotmail.com: SORRY I THOUGHT YOURE ADDY WAS MY FRIENDS P.S STOP TALKING LIKE A HORSE FUCKER
    (15:08:23) Rogério: That's my style of talking. I won't change it to please one person that I don't know in the world. If you at least were important to me... Oh, and, BTW, before you start talking about me talking like a "horse fucker", please get a dictionary and augment your vocabulary. You seem like an teenager.
    (15:09:03) Rogério: In summary: eu não quero manter contato com você, entendeu?
    (15:09:11) arron_chard@hotmail.com: IM 11 YEARS OLD YOU DICK
    (15:09:42) Rogério: Blocked.
    (15:10:17) arron_chard@hotmail.com: SO


(With my errors caused by stress and everything).
Enough said, right?


