---
layout: post
date: "2001-03-10"
title: 2001-03-10
tags: [debian, hardware, health, kde, linux, network, study]
---
Didn't do many important things today, besides making a brand new
installation of Debian's sid/unstable to see how things were going
with the bleeding edge. It turned out to be better than I expected
(I had some problems experiencing unstable before, so I was
scared).

Some of the nicest things are that it features XFree86 4.0.2 (with
the RENDER extension, since I have a Matrox G400) and that, coupled
with KDE 2.1/qt 2.3.0, makes it possible to use antialised fonts,
which make one's surfing experience much more pleasing, for
instance. If you are on the same boat, don't forget to visit
[Keith Packard's homepage](http://keithp.com/~keithp/), as it
features a handy
[XftConfig file](http://keithp.com/~keithp/fonts/XftConfig). The
only lowpoint of KDE with antialiasing is that if AA is enabled,
then you loose non-scalable fonts with KDE applications, which
means that you can't make konsole use a 10x20 fixed font anymore.

BTW, talking about [KDE](http://www.kde.org/), KDE 2.1 allows one
to use [Windowmaker](http://www.windowmaker.org/) Dock
Applications, and this is a very welcome thing as I love wmifs. The
more I use KDE, the more I'm impressed with it, in many respects.

Managed also to find some sites explaining Androgenetic Alopecia
and which are potential treatments for it. Frankly, I'd love to not
have to surf these sites... And keeping with the surfing thing,
found a remarkable program called
[vtun](http://vtun.sourceforge.net/), for setting up encrypted
TCP/IP tunnels. Handy for WANs.

And I'm keeping reading about Multiple Sequence Alignment, which is
getting more exciting day after day.

