---
layout: post
date: "2001-07-17"
title: 2001-07-17
tags: [debian, hardware, life, linux, powerpc]
---
This is the day that shouldn't have happened --- it was bad right
from start. First of all, I couldn't sleep well because I dreamt
with some perl scripts that didn't work and they took me almost all
my sleep time (or so it seemed). Then, my kind neighbor started
making lots of noises and I couldn't keep sleeping.

But the worst part of the day was still coming.

I went to my uncle's shop to get a new SCSI HD and he lent me a 4GB
one, more than enough to hold both Linux and MacOS 8. I turned the
thing on and it started making noises like the one I used
yesterday, which wasn't good. Anyway, I left it on and decided to
install MacOS on it. It was progressing nicely and I was getting
happier and happier, but then the whole system froze. I turned the
power off and tried to install Linux. At least this time Linux saw
the HD and all partitions that it had (7, I think).

To install Linux, I used some CVS bootfloppies that will become
bootfloppies of Debian woody. While trying to make the brand new
ext2 filesystem, I got a kernel panic. I tried again. This time, I
went up to the point of choosing which kernel modules I wanted. I
was getting happy again. But then, when I chose the module for the
ethernet card, a new kernel panic. Ouch!

I then tried to install MacOS again and a new freeze. Tried again,
new freeze. Then, I noticed that the HD was getting hot and put a
fan near it. I don't know if it was coincidence or not, but after
that, I could finish the installation of MacOS. Ok, so time to boot
this thing with no CDs in the CD-ROM drive. Nothing. Grrrr.

Things got strange after I tried to put the Linux PPC CD that I had
burned and it didn't work. Washed the CD and no boot. But it did
some days ago! It was not scratched, had no fingerprints and was
absolutely clean. But couldn't boot. I tried using the floppies
again, but this time, another surprise: the HD *was* recognized,
but a partition scan timed out, Linux told that it could not read
read its beginning and that it assumed that the size of the HD was
1GB, and showed *no* partitions on the drive. On the other hand,
MacOS is able to see it just before formatting it, perhaps because
it re-scans the SCSI bus. Changing the SCSI-id of the drive didn't
help. Is that the reason why it can't boot from the HD? Perhaps.

Anyway, my desire of seeing this thing encoding MP3s, using KDE, a
brand new browser and typing some texts with LaTeX seems a bit
farther than what I realized at first. I will still keep trying to
make this damn thing work, but I'm not confident anymore that I'll
succeed. Well, I'll talk to my uncle tomorrow, perhaps and see if
the other Mac behaves the same way. Enough for a day already.

