---
layout: post
date: "2005-11-17"
title: 2005-11-17
tags: [debian, free-software, latex, tex]
---
It seems that one post of mine to the
[debian-user](http://lists.debian.org/debian-user) mailing list
stimulated at least one reader to try
[LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/):

    From: Clive Menzies <clive@xxxxxxxxxxxx.xx.xx>
    To: debian-user@lists.debian.org
    Date: Wed, 16 Nov 2005 00:25:33 +0000
    Subject: Re: Using LaTeX (was: Re: Writing technical text - THANKS !)
    Message-ID: <20051116002533.GI4285@clivemenzies.co.uk>
    User-Agent: Mutt/1.5.11

    On (15/11/05 20:49), Rogério Brito wrote:

    [snip]
    > I would say that many people learn LaTeX the wrong way: getting a poorly
    > designed document and just changing it quickly until it contains more or
    > less what the person wants it to have.
    >
    > This is wrong in, at least, two aspects:
    >
    > 1 - this is not in line with the philosophy of LaTeX of separation of
    >     content and presentation (which was here for a loooong time before
    >     people in the Web decided to use Cascading Style Sheets with their
    >     pages and all the technology that accompanies XML);
    >
    > 2 - as an extension of point 1, I'd say that writers should learn at
    >     least a modicum of how to use LaTeX macro, so that they create new
    >     environments for their necessities instead of hardcoding things.
    >
    >     See, if you have a good macro, you can even put that in a style file
    >     of your own and forget about formatting something in that way in the
    >     future. In this sense, you can regard your style file as a "library"
    >     (in the computer programming sense) of distilled knowledge.
    >
    >     And this also implies that a good approach to using LaTeX is to
    >     regard the text as "the source code" of your text and even use tools
    >     like control revision systems (e.g., RCS, CVS, Subversion etc).
    >
    > > "apt-get install" is great here, since installing from source has got
    > > to be a nightmare.
    >
    > Don't forget to install tetex-doc and use the "TeX Catalogue on-line"
    > for looking for packages to accomplish what you want. Also, a *very*
    > good source of information here is the UK TeX FAQ (search in Google).
    > Not only it is very good, but it is quite entertaining.

    Thanks Rogerio

    I flirted with LaTex briefly, a while ago, but didn't get very far.
    Your advice prompts me to revisit it :)

    Regards

    Clive

    --
    www.clivemenzies.co.uk ...
    ...strategies for business


In the mean time, I'm swamped with middle terms.


