---
layout: post
date: "2005-10-19"
title: 2005-10-19
tags: [apple, life, powerpc, teaching, work]
---
Ok, so, I am almost giving up the hectic mess in which work has
turned to... I need to take a serious time resting a little bit.

I'm so tired and people are so demanding of me and of my creativity
that its hard to even take some time with pleasant things. For
instance, in the little time that I have to sleep, I don't have the
motivation to study the neat things that I always wanted to.

I guess that this means that I'm overworked, without any shadow of
doubt. Being sleepy while at work has never been a common thing for
me, even when I was in the tiring days of my M.Sc. studies.

In fact, in those days, I thought that I was progressing (and it's
hard not to feel you're progressing when you're being pushed to
your limits), but now, with little time for intellectual
challenges, I see little point in keeping up with the work I'm
doing.

It's not particularly exciting to be teaching how to write a for
for the 20th time in less than two years. I guess that if the
concept of iteration doesn't enter one's brain as soon as it is
told, then all is hopeless.

I guess that I need a significant other to make everything bright
(even those less-than-perfect moments). Someone that truly
understands what I mean, what my ideals are, what my values are and
how I see the world.

And, yes, I am willing to even change some things of me. But please
don't disillusion me. In some sense, I'm fragile. Even more than
most people think that I am. Despite the tough cover that I may
have, lies a friendly person. Truly.

In other news, [Apple](http://www.apple.com/) has released a bunch
of new stuff, with the highlight (for me, at least), being the new
[PowerBook](http://www.apple.com/powerbook/)s.


