[[!meta  date="2009-02-03"]]
In the past few days, I did quite a good amount of things. One of
the things that took most of my mind was to convert some videos in
a proper format for the iPod. At first, I thought that the format
of the videos would have to have an H.264 encoded video with
resolution 320x240 (without using cabac, which increases the
compression factor of the video) and audio in the AAC format with
bitrates up to 160kbps.

Then, using Apple's Quicktime Pro 7, I exported a video from the
Dutch band called After Forever, which had the resolution bigger
than 320x240. This made me revisit Apple's site where the
specifications of videos meant to be played on iPods. It seems
that, now, with the latest firmware update, the iPod that I have
can play H.264 videos encoded with resolutions up to 640x480 (the
standard VGA resolution). Also, the bitrate doesn't need to be
restricted to 768kbps: some of the videos produced by Quicktime
(and which the iPods can play) have bitrates of up to 1500kbps.

This means that I can now encode some of my videos that are in the
nasty WMV format to formats that can be supported in a decent
manner by Free Software system. I have, for instance, the
BBC-produced DVD called "The Codebreakers", whose audio is in pure
DVD LPCM format (that is, uncompressed) and the space that it takes
on my hard disk is considerable (approx. 1GB).


[[!tag  audio]]
[[!tag  free-software]]
[[!tag  hardware]]
[[!tag  ipod]]
[[!tag  life]]
[[!tag  music]]
[[!tag  video]]
