[[!meta  date="2009-04-05"]]
I went to one of the best things that I ever experienced in my
whole life: [my favorite band](http://www.opeth.com/)'s show here
in São Paulo. Actually, the fact that it was just so close here
only made this a bit more special.

Getting the tickets wasn't that easy, if only for the simple fact
that the vendors only took cash and no other form of payment (read:
"no credit cards, no debit cards"). Anyway, I got two tickets and
went with my girlfriend to see them (note: she seems to not be as
fond of metal as I am).

When I arrived there, Opeth was already playing (and I thought that
the opening act would be playing at the time I was there!). They
were just in the first song and I was able to record most of the
show.

Well, I said most because my girlfriend's camera uses **a lot** of
space to record just a second of data: about 4Mbit/s. No kidding.
The files it generates are simply huge. And no, they are not
recorded in stereo. No, they are just MJPEG files with resolution
of 320x240. The net effect of this is that the 2GB + 1GB SD cards
that I carried with me were not enough for the entire show.

Speaking about the length of the show, I thought that it could last
a bit longer: just 1.5 hours is too little for Opeth, especially
given the fact that they have some quite long songs (say, "The
Night and the Silent Water"). Well, some things had to be
sacrificed: The last song played, "Deliverance", had to be shot
with my girlfriend's cell phone, in a 3GP file. Well, better that
than nothing.

The last surprise of the day was that I could meet some students of
mine. Well, actually, **they** found me there, while I asked to
take a picture of the setlist (they managed to grab the setlist
right from a roadie's hands). Talk about luck.


[[!tag  life]]
[[!tag  music]]
[[!tag  video]]
