[[!meta title="Quick tip #1"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 18 Oct 2013 12:49:09 -0300"]]

I wrote the following as part of a post to an discussion forum (I can't
remember which one), and people told me that they liked this information and
said that others would profit from it if I posted it on my blog, which I now
decided to post.

The context: for homework of one [[!wikipedia MOOC]], people were trying to
download a large virtual machine image that was offered both via an official
HTTP source, which was slow.

A person volunteered that already had downloaded the image volunteered to
create a bittorrent to help fellow students.

Other students started saying that the bittorrent download was faster up to
a certain point and, then, things slowed down a lot. Of course, they got
faster to the point where lots of pieces were already well distributed and,
then, only the everybody had already downloaded things and, then, only the
seeder had the missing segments of the torrent.

Then I commented with:

----

Depending on your bittorrent client, you can add the original HTTP
download as a "Web seed" and, this way, your client will download *both*
from the peers and also from the web to fill in parts that are not yet
available.

One such client is the Free (as in Freedom) [qbittorrent][1], but I guess that
others also have this option.

----

Soon after that, people started downloading things much faster.


[1]: http://qbittorrent.sf.net/

[[!tag debian]]
[[!tag free-software]]
[[!tag mooc]]
[[!tag quick-tip]]
