[[!meta title="Uploading SICP to Youtube"]]
[[!meta date="Sat, 17 Jan 2015 23:52:14 -0200"]]

# Intro

I am [not alone][0] in considering [[!wikipedia Harold Abelson]] and
[[!wikipedia Gerald Jay Sussman]]'s [recorded lectures][1] based on their
book "[Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs][2]" is a
masterpiece.

[0]: http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~bh/sicp.html
[1]: http://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/classes/6.001/abelson-sussman-lectures/
[2]: https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book.html

There are many things to like about the content of the lectures, beginning
with some pearls and wisdom about the craft of writing software (even though
this is not really a "software enginneering" book), the clarity with which
the concepts are described, the [Freedom-friendly][3] aspects of the authors
regarding the material that they produced and much, the breadth of the
subjects covered and much more.

[3]: https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/

# The videos, their length, and splitting them

The course consists of 20 [video files][4] and they are all uploaded on
Youtube already.

[4]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLE18841CABEA24090

There is one thing, though: while the lectures are naturally divided into
segments (the instructors took a break in after every 30 minutes or so worth
of lectures), the videos corresponding to each lecture have all the segments
concatenated.

To better watch them, accounting for the easier possibility to put a few of
the lectures in a mobile device or to avoid fast forwarding long videos from
my NAS when I am watching them on my TV (and some other factors), I decided
to sit down, take notes for each video of where the breaks where, and write
a simple Python script to help split the videos in segments, and, then,
reencode the segments.

I decided not to take the videos from Youtube to perform my splitting
activities, but, instead, to operate on one of the "sources" that the
authors once had in their homepage (videos encoded in DivX and audio in
MP3).  The videos are still available as a torrent file (with a magnet link
for the hash [`650704e4439d7857a33fe4e32bcfdc2cb1db34db`][hash]), with some
very good souls still seeding it (I can seed it too, if desired).  Alas, I
have not found a source for the higher quality MPEG1 videos, but I think
that the videos are legible enough to avoid bothering with a larger
download.

[hash]: magnet:?xt=urn:btih:650704e4439d7857a33fe4e32bcfdc2cb1db34db

I soon found out that there are some beneficial side-effects of splitting
the videos, like not having to edit/equalize the entire audio of the videos
when only a segment was bad (which is understandable, as these lectures were
recorded almost 30 years ago and technology was not as advanced as things
are today).

So, since I already have the split videos lying around here, I figured out
that, perhaps, other people may want to download them, as they may be more
convenient to watch (say, during commutes or whatever/whenever/wherever it
best suits them).

Of course, uploading all the videos is going to take a while and I would
only do it if people would really benefit from them.  If you think so, let
me know here (or if you know someone who would like the split version of the
videos, spread the word).


[[!tag debian]]
[[!tag free-software]]
[[!tag programming]]
[[!tag study]]
[[!tag video]]
