[[!meta title="Alternatives to ikiwiki?"]]
[[!meta date="Wed, 24 Feb 2021 05:19:00 -0300"]]

It's been quite a long time since I last posted anything on this blog and I
can say that one of the reasons for that I don't feel comfortable using
`ikiwiki` anymore. ☹

I am actively looking for alternatives to `ikiwiki` that allow me, mainly,
to write blog posts with the following characteristics (roughly in order of
importance):

* Write in a lightweight markup language (e.g., markdown) and store what I
  do in a git repository---some (extra?) features are needed, like creating
  tables. I may be open to using something like restructured text, if
  necessary, but if I don't have to change, then I'd like to keep it.
* Create a static version of what I wrote in markdown, especially hosting it
  with, say, GitHub pages.
* Use mathematics, perhaps extensively, mostly copying and pasting from
  LaTeX documents.
  
  This, is one **major** pain point with `ikiwiki`. Apparently almost nobody
  cares about supporting MathJax/KaTex or similar. **Very depressing.**
  
  I have tried to use hugo (which we happily have packaged in Debian), but
  configuring it is totally crazy: first, you have to decide on a theme and,
  then, (almost?) everything that you do is tied to that theme.  This is
  (almost) the opposite to the philosophy of LaTeX: first, write your text
  and, only then, worry about the style/looks.
  
  I have more to say about hugo and I failed, but I would still like to give
  it a try, if I don't find anything else that has the features that I'm
  looking for.
* Enable syntax-highlighting for code samples. I'm a Computer Scientist
  after all, and I would love to share code.[^1]

I have already converted most posts (that is, not this one ☺) with some
python scripts to a format that I feel is a bit more format-agnostic.

[^1]: I like the style of fenced blocks that GitHub used, where you prefix
    the code with the name of the language to give a hint of how to
    highlight the code snipped.

[[!tag debian]]
[[!tag free-software]]
[[!tag linux]]
