[[!meta title="Beginning Ruby"]]
[[!meta date="Sat, 20 Jul 2013 21:50:00 -0300"]]

These are some very rough/sketchy notes that I took while doing the
exercises on the introductory track of the Ruby language at
[codeacademy][0].  They were written from the point-of-view of an amateur
programmer in C and Python (read: "me").

Since this is my first time with Ruby and I only have about 1 week of
experience with it, these notes are likely to contain many mistakes, many
simplifications, many omissions or simply gross errors.  I would love to be
informed of such facts so that I can fix them and not write code that is
burdensome for others to maintain.

[0]: http://www.codeacademy.com/

[[!toc]]

# Operators

* Math operators: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`, `**` (just like Python)
* Relational operators: `==`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=` (just like other
  languages)
* Boolean operators: `&&`, `||`, `!` (just like C/C++/Perl)
* The combined comparison operator ("spaceship operator", like Perl): `<=>`
  (follows the spirit of what `strcmp` in C does)
* Conditional assignment operator (`||=`) only assigns a value to a variable
  if that variable is bound to `nil`.

# Numbers

* You can write number literals embedding an underscore (`_`) for
  readability purposes.

# Basic I/O

* Output: `print` and `puts`. Both print strings to stdout, but `puts` also
  appends a new line to the end.
* Input: `gets` accepts an input from stdin and returns a string.
* To convert a string `foo` to an integer, use the `Integer(foo)`
  constructor. It throws an exception if it cannot convert the value.

# Strings

* Strings have at least some methods: `.length`, `.reverse`, `.upcase`,
  `.downcase`, `.capitalize`, `.chomp` (like Perl, removes the trailing
  endline)
* `.upcase` seems to have problems with non-ASCII characters, like `é`.
* Interpolation is performed by putting the name `name` of the variable
  inside a string and delimited as `#{name}` at the place we want the
  interpolation to occur.
* Methods like `.capitalize` don't change the string (they return a new
  string capitalized).  To change the string, you call the method
  `.capitalize!` (with a `!` at the end of the name of the method).
* Other useful methods: `.gsub` for globally substituting a regular
  expression (and its variant `.gsub!` for inplace modification), and
  `.include?` to verify if the first string includes another.
* Another method: `.split(" ")`, to split on the string specified as
  argument.

# Control flow

## If

* The syntax of a `if` is:

        if expression1
          block1
        elsif expression2
          block2
        else
          block3
        end

  note that it ends with the word `end`, there are no need for parentheses,
  no braces, no colons, and the keyword for "else if" is `elsif` (different
  from Python's `elif`).
* The "`if`" can also be started with the keyword `unless` instead, which
  checks if the expression is false rather than true (as is the case of
  `if`).

## While

* The syntax of the `while` is similar to other languages:

        while condition
          block
        end

* A variation of the `while` is the `until`, with the same syntax, except
  for the `until` in place of the while, and that it iterates when the
  condition is false, instead of true.

## For

* The simple case of iterating over a range of numbers is:

        for i in 1...10
          block
        end

   Like ranges in Python, the 10 is not included (the variable `i` iterates
   from 1 to 9).

   For an *inclusive* range, we use two dots (`1..10`), instead of three
   dots (`1...10`).

## Loop

* To iterate a block, we can use the `loop` keyword, as in:

        loop { block } # with braces

  or as in

        loop do # note the pair do/end in place of braces
          block
        end

* It is useful to use `break` when using loop to break out of the infinite
  iterations.
* Similarly, we can use `next` as in other languages (the same as `continue`
  in C or C++).

# Arrays

* The equivalent to Python's lists are arrays and they are declared in the
  same fashion:

        my_array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

* Arrays in Ruby are 0-based.
* Every array has an iterator called the `.each` method. The basic syntax
  is:

        object.each { |item| block } # do something

  which can be written as:

        object.each do |item| block end

  where the name between `| |` is bound to (a copy of?) each element of
  `object` in turn. The equivalent in Python would be:

        for item in object:
            block

* Arrays can be sorted with the `.sort` method (or its sibling `.sort!`).
  When passing a parameter, it is useful to use the spaceship operator
  (`<=>`) (like Perl) to specify a custom order (similar in spirit to what
  we do with Python's `key` argument to the `sort` method of a list).
  Example:

         my_array.sort! {|a, b| a <=> b} # Ascending order
         my_array.sort! {|a, b| b <=> a} # Descending order

* The `.push` method appends an element to an Array (similar to Python's
  `.append`).
* The empty Array is denoted by `[]`, like an empty list in Python.
* An iterator (like `(1..10)`) can be converted to an array with the `.to_a`
  method.

# Hashes

* A literal hash is defined by the syntax:

        my_hash = {
            "key1" => "abc",
            "key2" => 2,
            "key3" => false
        }

  Quite similar to the version in Python:

        my_hash = {
            "key1": "abc",
            "key2": 2,
            "key3": False
        }

  In fact, in Ruby 1.9, you can write, instead:

        my_hash = {
            key1: "abc",
            key2: 2,
            key3: false
        }

  which is very similar to Python or JSON.
* The empty hash, OTOH, is defined by calling the constructor `.new` of the
  class `Hash`:

        my_hash = Hash.new

  The syntax used by Python can also be used: `my_hash = {}`
* Iterating over a hash is done the same way as done for an array, but the
  `.each` method gives *both* the key *and* the value, as in:

        my_hash.each do |k, v|
          puts "#{k}: #{v}"
        end

* To iterate only on keys, we use the method `.each_key`. To iterate only on
  values, we use the method `.each_value`.
* A hash can be sorted with the `.sort_by` method (to sort by keys, values
  or any expression involving them) and since it can be ordered, we can
  reverse (in-place) the order of its elements with the `.reverse!` method.
  This makes Ruby's hashes to "taste" like Python's `OrderedDict`'s.
* When one initializes a hash, one can specify a default value to the `.new`
  method (e.g., `foo = Hash.new(0)`), which makes it convenient to do the
  equivalent of Python's `defaultdict` or `Counter`.
* You can select part of a hash by using the `.select` method and giving it
  a block. For example:

        good_movies = movie_ratings.select{|k, v| v > 3}

# Functions/methods

* Functions in Ruby are defined with the word `def` (as in Python) and end
  with the word `end`, as other composite constructs. Example:

        def square(n)
          return n*n
        end

* Parentheses are optional in Ruby, unless they create ambiguity. So, to
  call the function above, one can use any of the following:

        square(2)
        square 2

* A function can take a block as a parameter (and this is what `.each` does,
  for instance).
* Functions can take a variable number of elements with the *splash*
  operator (denoted by `*`), which puts the extra parameters in an Array
  (like Python).
* Functions can have default parameters, which are set in the "prototype",
  just like in Python or C++.
* If the `return` keyword is omitted from the method, Ruby uses an implicit
  return, where the value of the last executed expression is returned to the
  caller of the method.

# Symbols

* Any instances of a given symbol share the same ID. This is due to the fact
  that they are immutable.
* Symbols start with a colon (`:`) and they can contain any character that
  is valid for a variable name.
* It is possible to convert between a symbol and a string with the methods
  `.to_s` and `.to_sym`.

# Comments

* Single line comments use the hash symbol (`#`).
* Ruby also has multiline comments, which are delimited by a line beginning
  with `=begin` and a line beginning with `=end`.

# Lambda functions

* A lambda function in Ruby is defined, as expected, as, for example:

        foo = lambda { |x| x.to_sym }

* The basic differences between a lambda and a proc is that:
  - A lambda checks the number of elements that it receives, while a proc
    doesn't and assigns `nil` to parameters that it didn't receive (a proc
    seems to ignore extra parameter that it wasn't expecting).
  - When a lambda returns, the control goes back to the function that called
    the lambda, while when a proc returns, the control is returned *also*
    from the function that called the proc.

# Classes

* "Everything is an object in Ruby." (At least one exception are blocks).
* To test if an object is of a given class, you use the method `.is_a?` on
  the object and the type as argument (e.g., `foo.is_a? Integer`)
* The "null" value in Ruby is `nil`. It is equivalent to `None` in Python.
* The only "falsy" values in Ruby are `false` and `nil`. The others are
  "truthy", differently from C/C++/Perl/Python.
* For a given object, the method `.object_id` returns what is the "address"
  of that object.
* Classes in Ruby are created with the syntax

        class ClassExample
            # body
        end

  (That is for a class that has is not derived from other regular classes).
* Constructors in Ruby are called `initialize`. An instance of a class is
  created by calling the method `.new` on the class name (and passing
  parameters as needed for the `initialize` method).
* Instance variables are named with 1 at sign (`@`) as a prefix. Class
  variables are named with 2 at signs (`@@`) as a prefix. Global variables
  are named with a dollar sign (`$`) as a prefix.
* Class methods are declared inside a class prefixed with `self.` and they
  are called with the class name suffixed with the name of the method. For
  example, for a class `MyClass`, with a class method `class_method`, we
  call it as `MyClass.class_method`.
* When overriding a method in a subclass, one can call the method from the
  parent class with the keyword `super`, as in `super(arg1, arg2)`.
* Ruby doesn't support multiple inheritance. In place of multiple
  inheritance, Ruby offers mixins.
* To access one attribute, say `@my_attrib`, in Ruby classes, one usually
  creates two methods to manipulate it: a method with the name `my_attrib`,
  that returns the value of `@my_attrib` (a getter) and a method with the
  name `my_attrib=` that accepts a parameter to set `@my_attrib` to (a
  setter).

  There is syntatic sugar for creating both getters or setters.

  For a getter, you declare `attr_reader :my_attrib` (the member name as a
  symbol).

  For a setter, you declare `attr_writer :my_attrib`.

  If you need both a getter and a setter, then you can abbreviate them with
  `attr_accessor`.
* All methods, by default, are public in Ruby. To explicitly mark something
  as public, you use the keyword `public`. To mark something as private, you
  use the keyword `private`.


# Modules

* You can import a module with the keyword `require` (as in Perl) and the
  name of the module in quotes.
* One example of a module is the `benchmark` module, which provides the
  `Benchmark` class, which has the method `.realtime`, which takes a block
  and reports how much time it used.
* To create a module, use a syntax similar to that of a class, but
  substituting the keyword `class` with `module`.
* The scope resolution operator in Ruby is the double colon (`::`), like in
  Perl.
* To create a method inside a module, you have to prefix it by the name of
  the module with a dot or with `self.`, if you want to create a method to
  be called outside the module.

  The same also holds for creating class methods (as opposed to *instance*
  methods): they can be simply named `self.foo` to get a class method called
  `foo`.
* While some modules are already "preloaded" by the interpreter (e.g.,
  `Math`), others need to be explicitly loaded. We do this by using `require
  'foo'` to load the module (in the file `foo`?).


# Mixins

* A mixin is the use of a module to "enrich" a class, adding "instance"
  methods of the module to the class.

  It is, in a sense, a way to have some of multiple inheritance in Ruby
  (without its headaches?)
* Using the word `include Foo` imports the items of the module `Foo` in the
  current namespace for *instances* of a class.
* Using the word `extend Foo` imports the items of the module `Foo` in the
  current namespace as class methods/attributes.


# Conventions

* Local variables are named in lower case, with parts separated by
  underscores, as in `my_name`.
* Methods that return boolean values have a question mark (`?`) at the end
  of their name.
* Methods that have destructive side-effects (like changing their input)
  have an exclamation mark (`!`) at the end of their name.
* Code is indented by 2 spaces.
* Like other languages, constants are written in all caps, with words
  separated by underscores. For example, `MAX_VALUE`.
* Global variables are prefixed with a dollar sign (e.g., `$Foo`).
* Classes are named in camel case (no initial lowercase).
* The "poetic mode" in Ruby recommends one to omit the parentheses on
  function calls (whenever unambiguous) and, in essence, to write as little
  "bureaucracy" (like the explicit `return` keyword in methods).


[[!tag  debian]]
[[!tag  free-software]]
[[!tag  ruby]]
[[!tag  study]]
