[[!meta  title="Music, Group Actions, Quilt and Debian Packages"]]
[[!meta  date="2007-06-13 02:08:51"]]

These are some short notes on what I've doing these days.

Unfortunately, there isn't much to talk about. I think that one of the most
relevant things that I did was to resurrect one of my best
[[!wikipedia Digital_audio_extraction desc="audio-extracting"]] CD-ROM
drives: just opened the case of my computer, took off the CD drive, opened,
cleaned its lens, lubricated the moving parts and everything is back to
normal operation.

This sense of "getting something for nothing" is hard to explain to those
who have not experienced it already.

Other things that I did was to grab some old CDs that I had laying here
(Radiohead's [[!wikipedia OK Computer]], Pantera's
[[!wikipedia Far_Beyond_Driven]], the tribute to Queen called "Dragon
Attack", and Gentle Giant's [[!wikipedia Free Hand]], among others). Dream
Theater's
[[!wikipedia Systematic_Chaos desc="Special Edition of Systematic Chaos"]]
is quite good, but unfortunately I don't have a 5.1 system at my disposal.

I also selected some material for further studies. I'm right now studying
[[!wikipedia group actions]] (or G-sets as some seem to prefer). Soon, I
will be finishing the basics of Group Theory (hey, really, why is the
[[!wikipedia Conjugacy class desc="Class Equation"]] of groups that
"famous"? It is just a matter of saying that $|X| = \sum_{x\in X} 1$, but
with cardinality of orbits instead of with one's and with a transversal of
the orbits in place of $X$ itself).

Actually, if the orbits of the elements of the $G$-set $X$ consist of just
one element, then the equation above is the
[[!wikipedia Group action desc="Class Equation"]] (what some people would
call $\mathop{\mathrm{Fix}}(X)$, I would call the "orbits being trivial").

Anyway, [[!wikipedia Burnside's lemma]] (which actually seems to be wrongly
attributed, since it seems to be discovered independently by Cauchy and
Frobenius) for counting orbits of a given action of a $G$-set has nice
implications in combinatorics and it should be, at least, mentioned in any
self-respecting introduction to Group Theory.

Oh, I almost forgot one of the major things that I did today (2007-06-12): I
finally learned how to manipulate the [`quilt`][0] patch-system (initiated
by [[!wikipedia Andrew Morton (computer programmer) desc="Andrew Morton"]]).
The crucial point that is not written anywhere: the patches, by default, are
applied with `-p1` instead of `-p0`. This took me quite some time to get, as
the documentation isn't explicit about it. Installation of quilt in a
[MacOS X][1] system is not trivial, due to the demand of [GNU][2] tools.

But now I can keep some [Debian][3] packages of mine in a better shape than
if I were just applying a single monolithic patch.

[0]: http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/quilt
[1]: http://www.apple.com/macosx/
[2]: http://www.gnu.org/
[3]: http://www.debian.org/


[[!tag  abstract-algebra]]
[[!tag  class-equation]]
[[!tag  computers]]
[[!tag  debian]]
[[!tag  group-actions]]
[[!tag  math]]
[[!tag  quilt]]
