[[!meta  title="Random Points on Group Theory"]]
[[!meta  date="2007-05-24 14:07:11"]]

It is not a surprise for anyone that I'm reviewing a little bit of Abstract
Algebra.

Reading Fraleigh's book is proving to be quite a good refresher, especially
since my short-term goal is to study [[!wikipedia Coding Theory]] and the
finer aspects of Coding Theory do involve Algebra (actually, one could say
that the finer aspects of Coding Theory, especially Error Correcting Codes,
depend quite a lot on Algebra).

Well, while studying Group Theory, one can't avoid to be amazed by some
results that are not exactly that intuitive. For instance, I just discovered
that the additive group $$\mathbb Z[X]$$ of univariate polynomials with
integer coefficients is isomorphic to the multiplicative group $$\mathbb
Q^+$ of positive rationals.

I thought that this was a relatively easy exercise until I posed the problem
to a very competent friend of mine and he had some problems trying to come
up with the isomorphism. His failure maybe tells me that this is not as
obvious as I once thought and I think that this exercise should be better
known, as it can show that very differently looking algebraic structures can
be "the same" and the most surprising fact here is that *we are **not**
dealing with any pathologically "made up" example*!

Another thing that maybe is hard for students to grasp is the concept of a
factor group. Knowing that a subgroup is normal iff it is the kernel of some
homomorphism of groups is a handy way to memorize and "see" what a
[[!wikipedia normal subgroup]] is. And students should be shown that there
are some quite special ("natural"?) normal subgroups of a group: the *center
of the group* and the *commutator subgroup*, just as two examples.

The latter one, together with a good explanation of what does it mean for
taking <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quotient_group">factor
groups</a> (i.e., taking the elements of the normal subgroup and equating
them to the unity), leads to a better understanding of quotient/factor
groups. A nice thing to prove (that is short and shows the "mechanics" of
factor groups) is the fact that a quotient group is abelian iff the normal
group used as the "denominator" contains the commutator subgroup.

Another thing that is worth doing is proving that a normal subgroup $$N$$ is
maximal in a group $$G$ iff $$G/N$$ is simple. The proof of this fact is
analogous to the proof of the quotient of a ring being a field iff a ring is
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factor_ring">factored</a> by a maximal
ideal (and that we get an <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_domain">integral domain</a> if
the ideal is only prime instead of maximal).

Last, two groups that I feel that should merit way more attention than what
I perceive as being given in a first course are the dihedral groups $$D_3$$
and $$D_4$. Asking the students to draw the lattice of subgroups of such
groups is quite enlightening, as they are "natural" groups that are not
abelian (but with *all* the proper subgroups being abelian). Nice examples
to have in mind, without any shadow of doubt.

[[!tag  abstract-algebra]]
[[!tag  group-theory]]
[[!tag  math]]
[[!tag  quotient-groups]]
