[[!meta title="(Some) Solutions with Chromium"]]
[[!meta date="2011-03-09 14:33:00"]]

In [[my previous post|problems_with_chromium]], I was pointing out some of
my frustrations with Chromium/Chrome.  A very kind reader, Timo Juhani
Lindfors, gave me answers to many of the problems that I pointed out and got
me straight on some issues:

> * I can disable full zoom in Iceweasel (i.e., I only want to zoom the text,
>  not the images). According to Chromium's project BTS, it seems that this
>  will be a `WONTFIX` bug, despite many people asking for it (and it having
>  a lot of duplicates).

Timo told me that there is an extension called ["Font Size Increase"][FSI]
(ID: ombpcpigmndepfckcifdblemkabaoihk) that adds a button on the side of the
URL bar that you can click to increase the size of the text, without
affecting the size of the images. Highly recommended.

Not that I need this one as much as "Font Size Increase", but there is also
a ["Font Size Decrease"][FSD] (ID: mpajngnpcmjjeoflljdjpnehcfaldcia) that,
as the name implies, decreases the size of the text. It is nice to have this
one when you clicked on the button to increase the size of the font one or
two times too many.

> * In Iceweasel, I have a way (without resorting to many extensions or
>   hackish solutions) to use the equivalent of Firefox's "View > Page Style >
>   No Style" (i.e., to ignore any CSS sheet that the document author may have
>   specified on the page).

Timo also told me that there is a very cool extension called
["Chrome Page Style"][CPS] (ID: ddpkgkegfklikkmfmneldonhldahhacb) that
allows you to alternate between stylesheets provided by the page (see Joey
Hess's [ikiwiki's CSS Market][IWCSSM] for an example of that).

It also has the possibility of disabling all the CSS'es that a page may
have, which, in many cases around the web *actually improves* the
readability of the pages, for many "fancy" things detract from readability,
especially if you have poor eyesight.

Although I had said that I didn't want to resort to extensions, this was a
simple solution enough that made me consider revisit my requirements.  I do,
though, wonder why some frequently used extensions are not built into the
programs from stock.

> * In Iceweasel, I can press `Ctrl+Q` and make the damn browser quit, instead
>   of me having to use the mouse/trackpad/pointing device. This is probably a
>   lack of my understanding on how to associate key bindings to Chromium, but
>   the problem still stands.

Of course, Timo also set me straight and told me about `Ctrl+Shift+Q` for
that purpose, which I had missed completely.

> * Similarly, when there is only one tab open, pressing `Ctrl+W` in Chromium
>  does not close the tab (say, presenting me a blank tab or the list of most
>  visited sites), nor it closes the application.

As a poor writing of my part, `Ctrl+W` does close the tabs. But when there
is only one tab present, it doesn't close the window. I'm OK with that,
since I now know the way to close the window. Thanks again Timo.

Oh, and one point that may not be known by many is that using `about:flags`
in Chrome does something analogue to Firefox's `about:config` (even with the
warning).

And tweaking with it you can try to see if you can enable hardware
acceleration of some parts of your pages, as present in newer releases of
Chromium.

So, there I am: way more satisfied than with earlier with Chromium, but
still having Firefox/Iceweasel as my primary browser. Good to have two
usable browsers now.


[CPS]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ddpkgkegfklikkmfmneldonhldahhacb
[FSD]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mpajngnpcmjjeoflljdjpnehcfaldcia
[FSI]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ombpcpigmndepfckcifdblemkabaoihk
[IWCSSM]: http://ikiwiki.info/css_market/

[[!tag browsers]]
[[!tag free-software]]
[[!tag debian]]
[[!tag extensions]]
