[[!meta title="Trying out AdSense"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 03 Sep 2012 20:12:42 -0300"]]

I have been having quite costly experiments with [(embeded) hardware][0] in
the last few weeks/months. To cover at least part of the expenses, I am
trying out to use Google's [AdSense][1] with my blog.

I plan on blogging more frequently with the results of the experiments, but
it will take me a few days, as I want to offer people only the "meat" of
what I actually did, pointing out some pitfalls that made me waste a lot of
time.

Anyway, back to AdSense, one interesting thing about trying it is that I
applied to be part of the program for 3 or 4 times late in August and, due
to unspecified reasons, my application was rejected for "not complying with
their policies".  I read the policies from left to side, from up and down
and nowhere I saw anything that my blog infringed.

This morning, I tried once again and I'm now in a sort of "probation period"
for AdSense, which is progress I think.

So far, I only put one advertisement at the top of my pages, but I am
curious to know how "targeted" those ads would be to a blog that has
articles that were written more than a decade ago, with posts in at least
two languages.

I guess that this is a weaker version of what [Raphaël Hertzog][2] is trying
to do with his funding campaigns, except that I only expect to cover the
costs of my hardware (even if I am skeptical that I will actually manage to
reach that point of self-sufficiency).

[0]: http://buffalo.nas-central.org/wiki/LS_Hardware_and_Software_information
[1]: https://www.google.com/adsense
[2]: http://raphaelhertzog.com/

[[!tag adsense]]
[[!tag advertisements]]
[[!tag debian]]
[[!tag debian-planet]]
[[!tag free-software]]
[[!tag funding]]
